.TH "BASHELP" "1" "September 26, 2014" "User Manual" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[B]bashelp\f[] \-\- bookmark, tag and search shell commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]bashelp\f[] \f[I]tag\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bashelp\f[] \-a|\-\-add
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bashelp\f[] \-r|\-\-remove, \-m|\-\-modify \f[I]tagId\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bashelp\f[] \-\-import, \-\-export \f[I]fileName\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bashelp\f[] \-s|\-\-show
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[B]bashelp\f[] \-v|\-\-version, \-h|\-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]bashelp\f[] is a shell tool for bookmarking, tagging and searching
shell commands you often use and often forget.
.PP
All the commands saved are stored in a sqlite database, and each command
has an id, a short description and as many tags as needed to search for
it afterward.
When adding a command a unique id will be assigned to it, and showed
always near the command.
When refering to the command, for example modifying and removing it, his
id should be used.
.PP
It is possible, through \-\-import and \-\-export options, to save in a
simple txt file all those commands that were previously added to
\f[B]bashelp\f[] database and to load them again on a different
\f[B]bashelp\f[] installation.
.PP
\f[B]bashelp\f[] should work on any modern shell (bash and zsh).
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Just one option per time is accepted.
This reflects the fact that any option directly relates to an action of
the \f[B]bashelp\f[].
.PP
When passing \f[I]tag\f[] (\f[B]bashelp\f[] \f[I]tag\f[]) all commands
which have the corresponding, or a similar one, tag will be showed.
If \f[I]tag\f[] is passed, no other option should be passed.
.TP
.B \-a|\-\-add
Add a command.
It will open a nano instance on a template file to be filled with
details about the command to be added.
When the file is filled with information, just close nano using ctrl+x
and the command will be added.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-r|\-\-remove \f[I]tagId\f[]
Remove the command with id=tagId.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-m|\-\-modify \f[I]tagId\f[]
Modify the command with id tagId.
It will open a nano instance on a file already filled with the details
of the command, change what you want and then close nano using ctrl+x.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-import \f[I]fileName\f[]
Import commands, saved in a specific format, from the file identified by
fileName.
.RS
.PP
The standard format used is:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
number\ of\ commands

previous\ commands...
last\ tag\ of\ command(N\-1)

commandN
description\ of\ commandN
number\ of\ tags\ of\ commandN
1st\ tag\ of\ commandN
2nd\ tag\ of\ commandN
other\ tags...
last\ tag\ of\ commandN

command(N+1)
following\ commands...
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-export \f[I]fileName\f[]
Export all commands saved in the database in the file identified by
fileName.
It will use the same format as \-\-import.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-s|\-\-show
Shows all commands saved in the database, with their ids and
descriptions and tags.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-v|\-\-version
Prints the version of \f[B]bashelp\f[] installed.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \-h|\-\-help
Prints the synopsis and a short explanation of various options.
.RS
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
The database used to store commands is a sqlite3 database (using foreign
keys, so sqlite version >= 3.6.19) saved in
\f[I]~/.bashelp/CommandsDatabase.md\f[].
.PP
\f[B]bashelp\f[] internally, when adding or changing a command, creates,
and subsequently deletes, the file
\f[I]/tmp/bashelp_TempCommandFile.txt\f[].
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
\f[B]bashelp\f[] was written by Federico Glaudo
\f[C]<dario2994\@gmail.com>\f[].
.SH THANKS
.PP
Special thanks go to: Giada Franz, William Di Luigi.
.SH BUGS
.PP
No bugs are known.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.PP
For any issues please visit https://github.com/dario2994/bashelp/issues.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright © 2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later
<http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
sqlite3(1)
